Humans long believed that there were other beings in the universe.  It was too hard to imagine such a vast, vibrant universe entirely barren save a small speck in the Milky Way galaxy.

Unfortunately, there was a constant, depressing lack of evidence.  Many wise men theorized explanations for humanity's lonely corner of the universe, but no technology existed for determining the truth.  Man was to be alone until he found a way to contact others.

Those wishing for contact with other beings created their own visions of what might be waiting far away in the deep.  Many wished for contact with intelligent, kind races with the resources to take humanity under their wing.  Others created fantasies of horrible monsters bent on the destruction, enslavement or exploitation of man.  A few realized that alien life would be so foreign that it might not even be recognized as such.  Would these alien races even be willing or capable of communication with Earth?

No one dared imagine the truth behind the galaxy's stony silence.

------

The amount of space in the universe is so vast that our comprehension may never be able to accept it.  As we began to colonize other planets around Sol, and eventually other stars, our understanding of the universe and our control over it grew.  We could travel between stars and protect ourselves from the dangers of open space, but still couldn't seem to see deep enough into the universe to glimpse other beings.

After the first colonials left Earth and encountered nothing but empty planets, humanity began to come to terms with isolation.  The view that there must be others finally began to fade, as scientists and dreamers could think of no other method for finding life signs on other planets.  Automated exploration units found nothing but barren, hostile worlds.  Exciting insights into the workings of the universe were often found, but none of them led to signs of other life.

Of course, in a galaxy consisting of over 100,000,000,000 stars, it's difficult to conclusively prove that no human will ever encounter new life signs.  In all the astronomers' years of study, fewer than 10,000 star systems in the Milky Way had actually been carefully scrutinized.  Space was just too big...

Initial colonization of new solar systems was slow and painful.  Relying on conventional propulsion systems, colonists could expect to spend months or years traveling to their destinations.  Even the speed of light is simply crawling when solar and galaxy scales are considered.  These long periods in open space led to great advancements in transport technologies, and safety was only a concern for the very first groups of explorers.  It appeared that man could travel as far as he wanted, so long as he had the patience.

Propulsion systems finally began to make strides, but only after physicists were able to unify theories of gravity with those of the other universal energies.  These theories opened wide a huge host of potential technologies, but the planning, calculation and manufacturing processes necessary to explore them was a significant hinderance.  Engineers promised that they would be inventing new devices, but warned that each might take years to perfect.

The first set of new propulsion devices allowed travel at much greater velocities, which was enormously significant...and unfortunate.  Almost overnight, colonists were able to travel many times further from Sol than ever before.  It was ironic that the ancient alien ruins were located on one of the first distant planets marked for colonization.

Dispite the continued lack of live alien beings, this discovery fundamentally altered almost every aspect of society.  Nearly limitless resources were provided to explore and research the new solar system.  There were innumerable questions to be answered, and humanity again believed that contact with other races was just around the corner.

It was soon found that all the planets in the system had been inhabited by the alien race.  All physical evidence indicated that they were indeed alien, and little information had been garnered regarding what they had been like.  In some locations it appeared as if they had simply disappeared, while other portions of their planets were horribly ravaged.  On one of the warmer planets, only slightly less hospitable than the Earth, artifacts had been almost perfectly preserved.  Archeologists hoped to find some physical remains of alien physiology there, but no traces could be found.  The remainders of many structures and artifacts were located, but no organic remains had survived.

In fact, it was one of the ravaged areas that yielded the first evidence of life - a scrap of preserved tissue inside an alien apparatus.  So much time had passed since the creature died that the surrounding area gave no clues as to the cause of death.  However, it was well preserved and intact enough for biologists to study.  Basic chemical composition tests indicated the alien had died many thousands of years earlier.

The first group of biologists given access to the tissue rushed out of the lab only minutes after entering.  It was unanimous that the remains found on the planet so closely matched human tissue that it was unlikely to be anything else.  Theories such as convergent evolution were suggested, but the identical DNA simply couldn't be rationally explained.  Somehow, humanity had been on the planet thousands of years before Earth men had even visited their own moon.  Skeptics and conspiracy theorists immediately demanded access to all the samples and data, but no other realistic conclusions could be reached.

All of humanity wondered how these men could be their distant relatives.  How had the secrets of interstellar travel been forgotten?

------

With incredible manpower and years of study, some answers began to appear.  Many regions of the galaxy had been inhabited and visited by the pre-men.  It seemed likely that pre-men had lived near Sol, and myths of their unfortunate demise abounded.  It became clear that evidence of them had been almost systematically wiped out: nothing could be found with detailed writing or significant meaning.  Old age, volcanic activity and erosion could not explain the completeness with which the artifacts had been picked over.  Any deep insight into the existence of the pre-men seemed completely lost.

Decades passed and the myths became facts.  With little real information to construct a picture of pre-man lifestyle, people told stories that fit the known pieces.  Even the most energetic and devoted researchers retired from their search.  Colonization of the galaxy continued, and assorted trinkets would appear from time to time.  With the truth completely impossible to determine, most people thought it better to forget the confusing questions and philosophies.  It was the only way to remain sane when it seemed that no answers would ever come.

------

When a large, unknown device was discovered by the Jupiter Mining Corporation, the irony was too painful.  After more than half a century of painstaking research and exploration, the best answers yet might have been found incredibly close to home.  Again, interest surged and the new device was carefully scrutinized.

The object appeared to have been an intelligent messaging and exploration system.  After replacing its power source, scientists and linguists were able to determine the language structure and reverse engineer the pre-man messages.  The true history of the "unfortunate demise" of pre-man was finally unravelled.

Pre-man had evolved within the Milky Way galaxy, but the Earth was not their original home.  A fair number of races had lived with pre-man in the Milky Way galaxy and even more had originated from far away but made frequent contact with pre-man and his neighbors.  Many of their societies had done away with violence and subjugation, but some arrived with unkind intentions.  Overall, the galaxy was peaceful and united, so any unfriendly visitors were quickly dealt with.

The fatal step occurred when an unfriendly race destroyed man's home world in a suprise move.  The entire human species was galvanized into a vengeful rage that tore apart both race's civilizations.  Although pre-man had the upper hand, the neighboring races looked on with much concern.

When pre-man began burning entire worlds and chasing down every last survivor, outsiders attempted to step in.  The people's support for the war had waned, but criticism from other races again reunited them against outsiders.  With negotiations failing and tempers rising, pre-man aggressively turned away from the many races demanding peace.

This was not a battle that could be won with typical weapons, so a self-replicating, intelligent machine was created.  Any non-human race nearing the border would be attacked, destroyed, or repulsed.  Soon, those borders surrounded the entire galaxy and pre-man was alone.  With the self-replicating robots able to devote almost any number of units to any task, it was not a war that could be won without sheer force.

Fearing that pre-man simply wouldn't stop with the conquest of their own galaxy, some other race devised the solution.  The self-replicating machines changed objectives and attacked their creators.  On every planet the machines discovered human life, everything was extinguished.  With such a vast number of machines and no warning, the mechanical revolution was unhindered.

Now more question arose.  How had any of humanity survived, and where was this mechanical army?  Would man be any more capable of surviving the attack if they appeared again?  Would the multitude of alien races negotiate with mankind after this time of silence?  The new questions seemed even harder to answer, but it seemed clear that some defense would be necessary.

A semi-intelligent machine capable of integrating new technologies was designed.  It was felt this offered the best defense, as any unknown technologies in the mechanical army might be adapted for use by this system.  Of course, the controls of this system would be carefully monitored by a human operator.  There would be no automated extermination programming for this second creation.  A flexible and extensible spacecraft was quickly built and deployed as a prototype.  As a cruel jab at the seemingly timeless nature of humanity, the spacecraft was christened "Battlestar T.U.X." (Terra's Unceasing Xenophobia).

It was then, presumably in response to the re-activation of the ancient probe, that the replicating army returned...
